pdfTeX
======

README for version 3.14159-1.20a of $Date: 2004/09/25 $
=======================================================

This directory contains the version 1.20a of pdfTeX, an extended version of
TeX that can create PDF directly from TeX source files and enhance the
result of TeX typesetting with the help of PDF. When PDF output is not
selected, pdfTeX produces normal DVI output, otherwise it produces PDF
output that looks identical to the DVI output. An important aspect of this
project is to investigate alternative justification algorithms, optionally
making use of multiple master fonts. 

pdfeTeX is an even more extended version of TeX than pdfTeX because it is
not based on TeX but on eTeX, an extended version of TeX. 

pdfxTeX is an experimental version of pdfeTeX, which apart from pdfTeX and
eTeX contains some features for testing purpose. When some feature seems to
be useful and stable, it can be moved to pdfTeX.

pdfTeX is based on the original TeX sources and Web2c, and has been
successfully compiled on Unix, Win32 and DOS systems. It is still under
development and features may change; it produces reasonable PDF code.

See the file NEWS for changes to the program.

Documentation about pdfTeX can be found at http://www.pdftex.org 

There is also a mailing list on pdfTeX; go to
http://tug.org/mailman/listinfo/pdftex for more information about it. Its
searchable archive can be found at http://tug.org/pipermail/pdftex/ 
Please read http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html before
asking any questions on the pdfTeX mailing list.

A mailing list for the developement of pdfTeX can be found at
http://www.ntg.nl/mailman/listinfo/ntg-pdftex


LEGAL ISSUES
============

pdfTeX is copyright (c) 1996-2004 Han The Thanh, <thanh@pdftex.org>

pdfTeX is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

pdfTeX is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with pdfTeX; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA

pdfTeX uses code from TeX; for these parts the original copyright by Don
Knuth applies. See the source files for details.

pdfeTeX uses code from eTeX; for these parts the original copyright by
Peter Breitenlohner applies. See the source files for details.


WHAT TO DO IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE FOUND A BUG IN pdfTeX
========================================================

Please read http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html and
follow the guidelines there. Then go to the sarovar site of pdfTeX
(http://sarovar.org/projects/pdftex/) and submit your bug report there.
Here you can also report feature requests or patches.


CONTRIBUTORS
============

Peter Breitenlohner, Ricardo Sanchez Carmenes, Otfried Cheong, Thomas
Esser, Hans Hagen, Hartmut Henkel, Tom Kacvinsky, Akira Kakuto, Reinhard
Kotucha, Derek B. Noonburg, Heiko Oberdiek, Jiri Osoba, Fabrice Popineau,
Sebastian Rahtz, Tomas Rokicki, Martin Schröder, Petr Sojka, Olaf Weber,
Jiri Zlatuska.

pdfTeX is built on top of TeX, written by Donald Knuth cum suis (Liang and
so), and eTeX, written by Peter Breitenlohner cum suis; part of the
paragraph optimization is inspired by the work of Hermann Zapf.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See the file TODO for work to be done.

Please send bug reports, offers of help, etc. to martin@pdftex.org

$Id: //depot/Build/source/TeX/texk/web2c/pdftexdir/README#13 $
// vim: tw=75
