OF TYPE1 FONTS AND FONTMAPS IN XDVI
===================================

HOW TO GIVE XDVI TYPE1 FONTS
----------------------------

Unlike Postscript printers xdvi has no builtin fonts.  So if you want
to use non-TeX type1 fonts such as Times-Roman you need to install
such fonts so xdvi can find them.  This file explains the procedure.

The install procedure is somewhat manual, but very rewarding, and it
need not be repeated unless you want to.

PLEASE NOTE: xdvi does not NEED these fonts, you will be able to use
xdvi without them.  Most texk and teTeX installations come with the
Blue Sky Research/Y&Y type1 versions of Knuths fonts, xdvi will be
able to use them with no further action.

PLEASE NOTE: This file assumes that you use teTeX installed under
/usr/local/teTeX.  It also assumes things about how your texmf tree is
organized.  You might have to change many paths to match your setup.

Enclosed in xdvik is a quite powerful type1 filename mapper called
t1mapper.  It was written to help you install type1 fonts in a way
such that xdvik can use them.  Here is how to use it.

1. 

Have gs (ghostscript) version 4 or 5 installed or fetched and
unpacked.  Including both font packages ('std' and 'other').  If you
have gs on your machine already you can check what version you have
with the command 'gs -help', this also tells you where the installed
gs stores its fonts.  Find the Fontmap file and the fonts.  If you
can't find them pretend you don't have them and follow the
instructions in the next paragraph.

If you don't have gs installed you need to get it and and the font
packages.  A likely source of a recent ghostscript is
ftp.ntnu.no:/pub/ghostscript/aladdin.  --- Please note that that
package has restrictions on commercial use including any distribution
for money.  Please read the file PUBLIC for the full licensing terms.
You can have the fonts under the GPL license as well, see
ftp.ntnu.no:/pub/ghostscript/gnu.  Please note that there are license
restrictions on this too, but very different, see the file COPYING
included in the source package --- From the source package you extract
the file 'Fontmap'.  Extract the two font packages too.  Now you have
the files you need.

Decide where to install the type1 files for xdvi.
/usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/fonts/type1/gs is a likely place.  Now
run t1mapper to install fonts there:

t1mapper -gs /usr/local/share/ghostscript/5.50/Fontmap \
	/usr/local/share/ghostscript/fonts \
	/usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/fonts/type1/gs

When the command is complete all the fonts gs knows about will have
been copied to /usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/fonts/type1/gs.  This will
give you the standard PostScript fonts as well as some others.  Use
the -lns option to make symlinks instead of copying the fonts.

2.

If you already have some type1 fonts, other than the ones from
ghostscript, we want to add them too, probably.  Some sites have
extensive postscript font collections.  All these fonts can be used.

Additionaly, if you use a machine with a comercial Unix version (such
as IRIX, Solaris, AIX, HP-UX...) it is quite likely that some type1
fonts are installed on the machine.  These can be used by ghostscript
and xdvi.  If you don't know where they are search for filenames such
as '*.pfa', '*.pfb', and 'Times-Roman*' and you should be able to find
them.

To add the fonts found on a Solaris machine so xdvi can find them:

t1mapper -lns /usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/fonts/type1/gs \
	/usr/openwin/lib/X11/fonts/Type1/*.pfa

Run the command on all the type1 fonts you want to be able to use in
xdvi.  

NOTE: Do not run t1mapper on the TeX type1 fonts (cm* and so on).
NOTE: You should probably not run them on your Lucida fonts.
	but see xdvi.cfg and lucida.map.

Copying/linking them all to the same directory will ensure that only
one version of each font is available to xdvi.  t1mapper will remove
any font version already available in the target directory before
moving a font there.  

The -lns option will cause t1mapper to symlink the fonts instead of
copying them, saving a good deal of diskspace.  These options are
available to modify how t1mapper atempts to copy/link files:

 -cp	copy the font files, this is the default and will always work
	and never break down on you.
 -ln	make hard links, this requires all the fonts to be on the same disk.
 -lns	make symbolic links, this requires that you do not remove the fonts
	linked, or xdvi will not be able to use them anymore.
 -lnlns atempt hard-link first, if it fails make symbolic link.
 -lncp  atempt hard-link first, if it fails copy the file.  This is a way
	to save some diskspace if possible, with no risk of files
	disapearing.

3.

You should have .afm files for all those fonts.  xdvi comes with a
program called type1afm which produces .afm files from type1 files.
It should be run on each type1 file.  That can be done like this:

  cd /usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/fonts/type1/gs
  sh   		
  for f in *.{pfa,pfb}; do
	type1afm $f
  done
  exit

You don't need to do the 'sh' and 'exit' lines if you already run
sh/ksh/bash/zsh, but you _do_ need them if you run csh or tcsh.

Now you must move the afm files to where they should be stored:

  mkdir /usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/fonts/afm/gs
  mv *.afm /usr/local/teTeX/share/texmf/fonts/afm/gs

4.

If you don't have cmr10.pfb, i.e., the type1 version of the
traditional TeX fonts get them from CTAN, e.g.,
ftp.tex.ac.uk:/tex-archive/fonts/cm/ps-type1/bluesky/pfb/.  Just drop
them in a texmf directory, such as fonts/type1/bluesky/cm/.  Afm files
are in /tex-archive/fonts/cm/afm.  Drop them in fonts/afm/bluesky/cm.
No further configuration is needed.

Additionaly, get
/tex-archive/fonts/amsfonts/ps-type1/amsps-unix.tar.gz and install the
pfb files in fonts/type1/bluesky/ams and the afm files in
fonts/afm/bluesky/ams.

There are some more type1 fonts in
/tex-archive/fonts/cm/ps-type1/bakoma/pfb.  As with the bluesky fonts
drop them in a directory, such as fonts/type1/bakoma and the afm files
from /tex-archive/fonts/cm/ps-type1/bakoma/afm in fonts/afm/bakoma.
There is a large overlap between the bakoma and bluesky fonts, you can
save some confusion and diskspace by removing the bakoma fonts that
have bluesky equivalents.

NOTE: There are license restrictions on the use of the bakoma fonts
which might prevent you from using them.  Including using them in
finished documents.  The license should be less restricing for xdvi
use than for dvips use though, since xdvi does not produce lasting ink
marks on paper.

NOTE: The bakoma fonts was made by an automatic process which results
in less precise type1 fonts than the manual process used to create the
bluesky fonts.  Many people would not use the bakoma fonts with
printers.  They are probably quite fine to use with xdvi though.

5.

All the font files are now where they should be.  If you use a file
database it's time to update it.  teTeX users run 'texhash' to obtain
this effect.

xdvi can now find all the nice files and will not need pk versions of
all those fonts.

Please read the INSTALL file too.  And the README file.

OF FONTMAPS
-----------

In principle Xdvi only accepts a subset of the fontmaps used by dvips
and pdftex.  In practice the restrictions are not very restraining.

Xdvi accepts fontmaps that obey these rules:

1. If the font is to be encoded there must be a t1lib version of the
   encoding vector.  See the enclosed vector files.  The vector file
   must have a .enc extention or be included by a <[ ... thingy.
   Encoding is optional.

2. The other file on the map line must be a font file in pfa or pfb format,
   the extention need not be included for the sake of xdvi (but dvips
   and pdftex might like it if you include it).  The font file name is
   REQUIRED.

   Xdvi does not have builtin fonts.  t1mapper hi-jacks the builtin
   fonts from ghostscript or other places for you.  But xdvi _must_
   know the name of the font file associated with the font.

3. There may not be any other input files on a fontmap line.

   Xdvi is not a printer and cannot accept arbitrary postscript
   prologues or setup things in fontmaps.

4. Xdvi decodes the ExtendFont and SlantFont commands in the quoted
   postscript code and the extention factor and slanting is applied
   to the font when displayed.  Any other magic done by the quoted
   postscript code cannot be decoded or duplicated by xdvi.

   In particular Xdvi does not look at the ReEncodeFont command, the
   encoding is implied by the presense of a encoding file on the map
   line rather than anything specified in the postscript string.
